## 1. Load Data

### 1.1 Obtain the Original CSV File

In the `data` folder, you can open the `EXCEL TEMPLATE.xlsx` file to fill in your data according to the given format.

To prevent accidental modifications, `EXCEL TEMPLATE.xlsx` is set to read-only. You can choose to save it as a new file or rename it before editing.

After editing `EXCEL TEMPLATE.xlsx`, you can use any Excel to CSV conversion tool (local or online) to convert it into CSV format and save it in the `data` folder.

Here is an example of the CSV file format:

```CSV
Term,Subject,Credit,Grade
1a,Course 1,3,90
1b,Course 2,4,85
2a,Course 3,2,90
```

### 1.2 Load the CSV File in the Program

Once you have obtained a CSV file that conforms to the required format, you can run `main.py` to enter the program and type `\l` in the main menu to start loading the CSV file.

When prompted for the file name, enter the CSV file name you want to load in the `data` folder (without the `.csv` extension). After the CSV file is successfully loaded, you will receive a confirmation message, and the status will change from `[Main Menu]` to the name of the loaded file.

---
## 2. Calculate Average Scores and GPA

### 2.1 Select Calculation Strategy

After loading the file, you can execute the `\c` command to enter calculation mode.

You can use `\s` to select the calculation strategy. This is optional; the default strategy is `terms`. There are two calculation strategies available, which produce results in different ways:

1. `terms` (default): Calculate GPA and average scores for each term separately, then summarize at the end.
2. `total`: Calculate GPA and average scores only once using the combined data of all terms.

### 2.2 Execute Calculations

In calculation mode, you can follow the menu prompts to choose which calculation standard to execute (average scores / GPA). If you select GPA, you will also need to choose the GPA model (e.g., `Standard 4.0 Model`).
